README.md, before:

Reproduce ResNet-v2 using MXNet
=====================================
## Requirements
- Install [MXNet](http://mxnet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/how_to/build.html) on a machine with CUDA GPU, and it's better also installed with [cuDNN v5](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn)
- Please fix the randomness if you want to train your own model and using this [pull request](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/pull/3001/files)

## Trained models

The trained ResNet models achieve better error rates than the [original ResNet-v1 models](https://github.com/KaimingHe/deep-residual-networks). 

* ImageNet:single center crop (224x224) validation error rate(%)

  | Network       | Top-1 error | Top-5 error | Traind Model | 
  | :------------ | :---------: | :---------: | :-------------: |
  | ResNet-18     | 30.90       | 11.01       |  |
  | ResNet-34     | --      | --        | |
  | ResNet-50     | 24.56   | 7.33   | [baidu.yun](http://pan.baidu.com/s/1o8GnUxO) or [dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/681xbcj0oh1jlez/AAA8B7KvcJJXxfwMbXSblGPMa?dl=0) |
  | ResNet-101    | 22.68      | 6.58        | [data.dmlc.ml](http://data.dmlc.ml/mxnet/models/imagenet/resnet/101-layers/) |
  | ResNet-152    | 22.25       | 6.42        | [data.dmlc.ml](http://data.dmlc.ml/mxnet/models/imagenet/resnet/152-layers/) |
  | ResNet-200    | --       | --        | |


* cifar10: single crop validation error rate(%):

  | Network    | top-1 |
  | :------:   | :---: |
  |ResNet-164  | 4.68 |

## How to Train

### imagenet
you should create the ```*.rec``` file first, i recommend use this cmd parameters:
```shell
$im2rec_path train.lst train/ data/imagenet/train_480_q90.rec resize=480 quality=90
```
set ```resize=480``` and ```quality=90```(```quality=100``` will be best i think:)) here may use more disk memory(about ~103G), but this is very useful with scale augmentation during training[1][2], and can help reproducing a good result.

because you are training imagenet , so we should set ```data-type = imagenet```, then the training cmd is like this(here i use 6 gpus for training):
```shell
python -u train_resnet.py --data-dir data/imagenet \
--data-type imagenet --depth 50 --batch-size 256  --gpus=0,1,2,3,4,5
```
change depth to different number to support different model, currently support ResNet-18, ResNet-34, ResNet-50, ResNet-101, ResNet-152, ResNet-200.

### cifar10
same as above, first you should use ```im2rec``` to create the .rec file, then training with cmd like this:
```shell
python -u train_resnet.py --data-dir data/cifar10 --data-type cifar10 \
  --depth 164 --batch-size 128 --num-examples 50000 --gpus=0,1
```
change ```depth``` when training different model, only support```(depth-2)%9==0```, such as RestNet-110, ResNet-164, ResNet-1001...

### retrain
When training large dataset(like imagenet), it's better for us to change learning rate manually, or the training is killed by some other reasons, so retrain is very important.
the code here support retrain, suppose you want to retrain your resnet-50 model from epoch 70 and want to change lr=0.0005, wd=0.001, batch-size=256 using 8gpu, then you can try this cmd:
```shell
python -u train_resnet.py --data-dir data/imagenet --data-type imagenet --depth 50 --batch-size 256 \
--gpus=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 --model-load-epoch=70 --lr 0.0005 --wd 0.001 --retrain
```

### Notes
* it's better training the model in imagenet with epoch > 100, because this will lead better result.
* when epoch is about 95, cancel the scale/color/ratio augmentation during training, this can be done by only comment out 6 lines of the code, like this:
```python
train = mx.io.ImageRecordIter(
        # path_imgrec         = os.path.join(args.data_dir, "train_480_q90.rec"),
        path_imgrec         = os.path.join(args.data_dir, "train_256_q90.rec"),
        label_width         = 1,
        data_name           = 'data',
        label_name          = 'softmax_label',
        data_shape          = (3, 32, 32) if args.data_type=="cifar10" else (3, 224, 224),
        batch_size          = args.batch_size,
        pad                 = 4 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 0,
        fill_value          = 127,  # only used when pad is valid
        rand_crop           = True,
        # max_random_scale    = 1.0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 1.0,  # 480
        # min_random_scale    = 1.0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 0.533,  # 256.0/480.0
        # max_aspect_ratio    = 0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 0.25,
        # random_h            = 0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 36,  # 0.4*90
        # random_s            = 0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 50,  # 0.4*127
        # random_l            = 0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 50,  # 0.4*127
        rand_mirror         = True,
        shuffle             = True,
        num_parts           = kv.num_workers,
        part_index          = kv.rank)
```
but you should prepare one ```train_256_q90.rec```  using ```im2rec```  like:
```shell
$im2rec_path train.lst train/ data/imagenet/train_256_q90.rec resize=256 quality=90
```

* it's better for running longer than 30 epoch before first decrease the ```lr```(such as 60), so you may decide  the epoch number by observe the val-acc curve, and set lr with ```retrain```.

## How to use Trained Models

TODO

## Reference
[1] Kaiming He, et al. "Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition." arXiv arXiv:1512.03385 (2015).
[2] Kaiming He, et al. "Identity Mappings in Deep Residual Networks" arXiv:1603.05027 (2016)
[3] caffe official training code and model, https://github.com/KaimingHe/deep-residual-networks
[4] torch training code and model provided by facebook, https://github.com/facebook/fb.resnet.torch
[5] MXNet resnet-v1 cifar10 examples,https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/train_cifar10_resnet.py

Commit message:

add aug-level & fix retrain epoch bug

README.md, after:

Reproduce ResNet-v2 using MXNet
=====================================
## Requirements
- Install [MXNet](http://mxnet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/how_to/build.html) on a machine with CUDA GPU, and it's better also installed with [cuDNN v5](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn)
- Please fix the randomness if you want to train your own model and using this [pull request](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/pull/3001/files)

## Trained models

The trained ResNet models achieve better error rates than the [original ResNet-v1 models](https://github.com/KaimingHe/deep-residual-networks).

* ImageNet:single center crop (224x224) validation error rate(%)

  | Network       | Top-1 error | Top-5 error | Traind Model |
  | :------------ | :---------: | :---------: | :-------------: |
  | ResNet-18     | 30.90       | 11.01       |  |
  | ResNet-34     | --      | --        | |
  | ResNet-50     | 24.56   | 7.33   | [baidu.yun](http://pan.baidu.com/s/1o8GnUxO) or [dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/681xbcj0oh1jlez/AAA8B7KvcJJXxfwMbXSblGPMa?dl=0) |
  | ResNet-101    | 22.68      | 6.58        | [data.dmlc.ml](http://data.dmlc.ml/mxnet/models/imagenet/resnet/101-layers/) |
  | ResNet-152    | 22.25       | 6.42        | [data.dmlc.ml](http://data.dmlc.ml/mxnet/models/imagenet/resnet/152-layers/) |
  | ResNet-200    | --       | --        | |


* cifar10: single crop validation error rate(%):

  | Network    | top-1 |
  | :------:   | :---: |
  |ResNet-164  | 4.68 |

## How to Train

### imagenet
you should create the ```*.rec``` file first, i recommend use this cmd parameters:
```shell
$im2rec_path train.lst train/ data/imagenet/train_480_q90.rec resize=480 quality=90
```
set ```resize=480``` and ```quality=90```(```quality=100``` will be best i think:)) here may use more disk memory(about ~103G), but this is very useful with scale augmentation during training[1][2], and can help reproducing a good result.

because you are training imagenet , so we should set ```data-type = imagenet```, then the training cmd is like this(here i use 6 gpus for training):
```shell
python -u train_resnet.py --data-dir data/imagenet \
--data-type imagenet --depth 50 --batch-size 256  --gpus=0,1,2,3,4,5
```
change depth to different number to support different model, currently support ResNet-18, ResNet-34, ResNet-50, ResNet-101, ResNet-152, ResNet-200.

### cifar10
same as above, first you should use ```im2rec``` to create the .rec file, then training with cmd like this:
```shell
python -u train_resnet.py --data-dir data/cifar10 --data-type cifar10 \
  --depth 164 --batch-size 128 --num-examples 50000 --gpus=0,1
```
change ```depth``` when training different model, only support```(depth-2)%9==0```, such as RestNet-110, ResNet-164, ResNet-1001...

### retrain
When training large dataset(like imagenet), it's better for us to change learning rate manually, or the training is killed by some other reasons, so retrain is very important.
the code here support retrain, suppose you want to retrain your resnet-50 model from epoch 70 and want to change lr=0.0005, wd=0.001, batch-size=256 using 8gpu, then you can try this cmd:
```shell
python -u train_resnet.py --data-dir data/imagenet --data-type imagenet --depth 50 --batch-size 256 \
--gpus=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 --model-load-epoch=70 --lr 0.0005 --wd 0.001 --retrain
```

### Notes
* it's better training the model in imagenet with epoch > 110, because this will lead better result.
* when epoch is about 95, cancel the scale/color/aspect augmentation during training, this can be done by only comment out 6 lines of the code, like this:
```python
train = mx.io.ImageRecordIter(
        # path_imgrec         = os.path.join(args.data_dir, "train_480_q90.rec"),
        path_imgrec         = os.path.join(args.data_dir, "train_256_q90.rec"),
        label_width         = 1,
        data_name           = 'data',
        label_name          = 'softmax_label',
        data_shape          = (3, 32, 32) if args.data_type=="cifar10" else (3, 224, 224),
        batch_size          = args.batch_size,
        pad                 = 4 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 0,
        fill_value          = 127,  # only used when pad is valid
        rand_crop           = True,
        # max_random_scale    = 1.0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 1.0,  # 480
        # min_random_scale    = 1.0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 0.533,  # 256.0/480.0
        # max_aspect_ratio    = 0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 0.25,
        # random_h            = 0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 36,  # 0.4*90
        # random_s            = 0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 50,  # 0.4*127
        # random_l            = 0 if args.data_type == "cifar10" else 50,  # 0.4*127
        rand_mirror         = True,
        shuffle             = True,
        num_parts           = kv.num_workers,
        part_index          = kv.rank)
```
but you should prepare one ```train_256_q90.rec```  using ```im2rec```  like:
```shell
$im2rec_path train.lst train/ data/imagenet/train_256_q90.rec resize=256 quality=90
```
cancel this scale/color/aspect augmentation can be done easily by using ```--aug-level=1``` in your cmd.
* it's better for running longer than 30 epoch before first decrease the ```lr```(such as 60), so you may decide  the epoch number by observe the val-acc curve, and set lr with ```retrain```.

## How to use Trained Models

TODO

## Reference
[1] Kaiming He, et al. "Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition." arXiv arXiv:1512.03385 (2015).  
[2] Kaiming He, et al. "Identity Mappings in Deep Residual Networks" arXiv:1603.05027 (2016)  
[3] caffe official training code and model, https://github.com/KaimingHe/deep-residual-networks  
[4] torch training code and model provided by facebook, https://github.com/facebook/fb.resnet.torch  
[5] MXNet resnet-v1 cifar10 examples,https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/train_cifar10_resnet.py
